Data Science Methodology - Case Study

Which topic did you choose to apply the data science methodology to? (2 marks)

I will choose email as my topic in this project.  The reason behind choosing this topic is classifying the emails 
(by checking if it's important or not and also if it's spam or not etc.) will increase in identifying the email 
and also increase in productivity.

Next, you will play the role of the client and the data scientist. 

Using the topic that you selected, complete the Business Understanding stage by coming up with a problem that you 
would like to solve and phrasing it in the form of a question that you will use data to answer. (3 marks)

You are required to:

Describe the problem, related to the topic you selected.

Phrase the problem as a question to be answered using data.

For example, using the food recipes use case discussed in the labs, the question that we defined was, 
"Can we automatically determine the cuisine of a given dish based on its ingredients?".

​1. We received many emails everyday. It could be difficult to read through every email recieved. 
Some email could be Important, some could be just an update, some could be a promotional email and some email could be spam. 
Therefore by Classifying these email into various groups such as Important, Social, Promotion, Spam and Update could be helpful 
and less time consuming. It could help us to avoid the spam emails and concentrate on the important emails.

2. Question:  "Based on the Content and Subject of the email, Can we determine which type of email it is?"


Briefly explain how you would complete each of the following stages for the problem that you described in the Business Understanding 
stage, so that you are ultimately able to answer the question that you came up with. (5 marks):

Analytic Approach

Data Requirements

Data Collection

Data Understanding and Preparation

Modeling and Evaluation

You can always refer to the labs as a reference with describing how you would complete each stage for your problem.

1. Analytic Approach: In this scenario, We can use classification model. As, We need to check if the email classifies to certain groups 
or not (Important, Social, Promotion, Spam and Update).

2. Data Requirements: In order to create a classification model in the scenario, we need information such as Senders email ID, subject of 
the email, content or body of the email, and whether it contain an attachment or not.

3. Data collection: For this scenario, We can collect all the data needed from the inbox of our email account. We can further collect and 
merge the email from various other inbox to create a good database. Later, Descriptive statistics and visualisation can be applied to data 
collected to check content quality and if we have the required data needed to answer the question asked.

4. Data Understanding and Preparation: The dataset will be checked. If any data present in the dataset is redundant, It will be removed or 
ignored. And also, since we are considering obtaining emails from various inboxes, there could be repetition of email. These will be considered
as duplicate data in the dataset, which has to be removed.

Since the data we are working with is email and they will be in text format, Text analysis will have to be performed on it. 
We also need to make sure that emails have to grouped properly in order to classify them. Certain keywords can be also used, 
which is present in the subject or the content of the email to group the email.

5. Modelling and evaluation: Since we are classifying emails in this scenario, A classification model has to be prepared. 
Many models will be developed and evaluated. We can check how accurately each model classifies. The model with more accuracy 
will be selected and deployed. The feedback can be used to tweak the models and make necessary changes required to make sure 
the Question asked originally is answerwed.
